\documentclass[12pt]{article}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage{amssymb}

\newcommand{\Z}{\mathbb{Z}}
\newcommand{\R}{\mathbb{R}}
\newcommand{\C}{\mathbb{C}}
\newcommand{\del}{\partial}

\begin{document}

\title{Topology II: Differential Topology\\
Problem Set 3} 
\date{}
\maketitle

\thispagestyle{empty}

\begin{enumerate}

\item Suppose $x,y\in (0,1)$. Show that there is a diffeomorphism
$\varphi:[-1,1]\to [-1,1]$ such that $\varphi(x)=y$.

\item For $x$, $y$ as above, show that there is a continuous (in the
sense of uniform convergence) family of diffeomorphisms $\varphi_t$,
$t\in [0,1]$, so that $\varphi_0$ is the identity and
$\varphi_1(x)=y$. Moreover, show that we can find such a family so
that in a neigbourhood of the boundary of $[0,1]$, $\varphi_t$ is the
identity for all $t$.

\item For a closed disc $D$ in $\R^n$ and $x,y\in D$, show that there
is a continuous (in the sense of uniform convergence) family of
diffeomorphisms $\varphi_t$, $t\in [0,1]$, so that $\varphi_0$ is the
identity and $\varphi_1(x)=y$. Moreover, show that we can find such a
family so that in a neigbourhood of the boundary of $D$, $\varphi_t$
is the identity for all $t$.

\item Let $M$ be a smooth, connected $k$-dimensional manifold. For
$x\in M$, define $U_x$ to be the set of $y\in M$ so that there is a
continuous family of diffeomorphisms $\varphi_t$, $t\in [0,1]$, with
$\varphi_0$ the identity and $\varphi_1(x)=y$. Show that $U_x$
contains a neighbourhood of $x$.

\item We say $x\sim y$ if $y\in U_x$. Show that $\sim$ gives an
equivalence relation.

\item Show that each equivalence class is open.

\item If $M$ is connected, show that for $x,y\in M$, there is a
continuous family of diffeomorphisms $\varphi_t$, $t\in [0,1]$, so
that $\varphi_0$ is the identity and $\varphi_1(x)=y$.

\item Suppose the dimension of $M$ is at least $2$ and $n>0$ is an
integer. Let $\Delta\subset M^n$ (where $M^n$ is the $n$-fold product
of $M$) be
$$\Delta=\{(x_1,\dots,x_n)\in M^n: x_i=x_j\text{\ for some $i$, $j$,
$1\leq i<j\leq n$}\}$$ Show that $M^n\setminus\Delta$ is connected.

\item Suppose $M$ is a connected, smooth manifold of dimension at
least two and $x_1,\dots, x_n$ and $y_1,\dots,y_n$ are collections of
\textit{distinct }points in $M$. Show that there is a continuous
family of diffeomorphisms $\varphi_t$, $t\in [0,1]$, so that
$\varphi_0$ is the identity and $\varphi_1(x_i)=y_i$ for $1\leq i\leq
n$.

\end{enumerate}


\end{document}
